{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww35640\viewh19220\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # \uc0\u55356 \u57305 \u65039  Airbnb - Amsterdam  \
### *How Airbnb is Really Being Used and Affecting Our Cities*\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56536  Overview\
This project was completed as part of **CareerFoundry\'92s Data Analytics Program (Achievement 6)**.  \
The goal was to conduct a full end-to-end data analysis and create a **Tableau storyboard** that communicates a compelling, data-driven story about Airbnb\'92s impact on urban environments.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55358 \u56830  Data\
\
- **Source:** [Tableau Storyboard \'96 Airbnb Amsterdam](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/am.sa5641/viz/StoryAirbnb_17627933443110/Story1?publish=yes)\
\
### **Scope**\
The dataset consists of **publicly available short-term rental listings** from Airbnb for **Amsterdam**, captured at a specific point in time.  \
It includes:\
\
- Listing attributes (room type, number of bedrooms/bathrooms, location/neighbourhood, amenities)  \
- Pricing information (nightly rate/average price)  \
- Demand and availability metrics (number of reviews, available nights, etc.)\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55356 \u57263  Objective\
To investigate **what factors impact listing price and demand** across neighbourhoods, room types, and other property attributes;  \
to identify **geographic patterns of short-term rental supply and performance**;  \
and to produce **actionable insights** for hosts, guests, and city stakeholders.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u9881 \u65039  Tools Used\
- **Python:** Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn  \
- **Tableau:** For storyboard and dashboard creation  \
- **GitHub:** For project documentation and version control\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55358 \u56809  Key Steps\
\
### 1. Data Sourcing & Cleaning\
- Imported and merged multiple datasets.  \
- Cleaned missing values and standardized data types.  \
- Ensured consistent geographic and categorical formatting for visualization.\
\
---\
\
### 2. Exploratory Data Analysis\
- Investigated relationships between location, room type, price, and popularity.  \
- Generated descriptive statistics and visual summaries.  \
- Identified early insights that guided hypothesis development.\
\
---\
\
### 3. Hypothesis Testing\
\
**Tested hypotheses such as:**\
\
1. **Listing location affects price**  \
   \uc0\u8594  *Properties located in central or popular neighbourhoods have higher average prices compared to those in outer areas.*\
\
2. **Room type influences rental cost**  \
   \uc0\u8594  *Entire homes/apartments are priced significantly higher than private or shared rooms.*\
\
3. **Number of reviews correlates with demand or popularity**  \
   \uc0\u8594  *Listings with a higher number of reviews tend to be booked more often, indicating higher demand.*\
\
**Key findings:**\
- Location has a **strong influence on price** \'97 listings in central or tourist-heavy areas show higher average nightly rates.  \
- **Room type** was a major driver of price, with entire homes being the most expensive and shared rooms the least.  \
- The **number of reviews** correlated moderately with **lower prices**, suggesting that more affordable listings attract more bookings and reviews.  \
- These findings help explain **pricing dynamics** and **market segmentation** within Amsterdam\'92s Airbnb market.\
\
---\
\
### 4. Visualization & Storytelling\
- Built an **interactive Tableau storyboard** that visualizes how Airbnb listings are distributed, priced, and reviewed across Amsterdam.  \
- Highlighted trends in neighbourhood popularity and property type distribution.  \
- Included summary interpretations and insights for decision-making.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u9888 \u65039  Data Limitations\
- The dataset represents a **snapshot**, so temporal patterns (seasonality, growth trends) are missing.  \
- **Location data** may be aggregated or anonymized, limiting precision in mapping.  \
- Some **listing attributes** are incomplete, and review counts may not fully reflect demand.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56960  Next Steps\
- Collect **time-series data** to observe changes over time.  \
- Enrich the dataset with **external data** such as neighbourhood amenities, transport access, or regulations.  \
- Apply **predictive modeling** (e.g., regression or machine learning) to forecast prices or occupancy.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56599  Links\
- **\uc0\u55357 \u56522  Tableau Storyboard:** [View on Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/am.sa5641/viz/StoryAirbnb_17627933443110/Story1?publish=yes)  \
- **\uc0\u55357 \u56507  GitHub Repository:** (this repo)  \
- **\uc0\u55357 \u56513  Portfolio Case Study:** [Link once uploaded]\
\
---\
\
*\'a9 2025 Am Sa \'97 CareerFoundry Data Analytics Program*\
}